We have two parameters declared in our parameter section,
which is the EnvironmentName. We have a description.
This description is really just for us,
not really provides any function audit.
This is just for you to remember what the perimeter is
for and it gives you an opportunity to provide a default value,
like you see here for the VpcCIDR.
Now, remember what I said,
in this case, we don't have a resources section.
So if we try to run this right now,
it would say, "Hey, that's great,
we have a parameter section,
but there are no resources, so it would fail.
In a programming language,
if you actually write an empty code file,
the compiler will not complain.
It will tell you everything's fine.
In this case, it will fail if you don't actually have any resources.
So let's add some resources.
In this case, we're just trying to build a VPC,
so let's go ahead and do that.
We'll go back to our reference document here and look for the VPC resource.
We're going to copy this, bring it over to our document.
Now we have a VPC resource and it's referencing
that parameter that we talked about. Let's try to run it.
We're probably going to run into some errors,
but that's ideal in this case,
especially at an early stage where we don't have too much code to troubleshoot,
it's perfect to run into some basic error.
So let's see what happens if we try to execute this.
I'll hit "Save." Now let's see.
So if we remember our script,
the create.sh, and we're going to pass the stack name,
ourdemoinfrastructure, and we're going to
pass the file name that we just created for the infrastructure,
our infra.yml, and the matching parameter file.
Now, let's just see what happens.
We get a stack ID returned to us.
What that means in this case is we didn't get an error.
Everything worked as expected.
Let's go to the console to verify that it's doing something.
We see that the status is creating
progress and now it switches to create complete. Let's take a look.
There's the VPC that we created.
So far, there's nothing.
It's just a VPC networking container.
So now we're going to start adding subnets to it.
Actually, before we do that,
let's go ahead and connect an internet gateway
to our VPC so I can explain how that works.
Going back to our reference document,
we have an Internet gateway and we have an Internet gateway attachment.
This is why referencing the documentation is very important,
because if you think that you need an Internet gateway based on your diagram, yes,
you do need an Internet gateway,
but once you read the documentation,
you're going to see that it says, "By the way,
if you just create it,
it's not going to be associated to any VPC".
So you need to create another resource which is
a gateway attachment or you're going to take
this Internet gateway and associate it with the VPC that you want.
Otherwise, it will just be an Internet gateway that is not connected to any network,
so it's not useful to you.
So in this case, we need two resources.
Let's take a look. It's going to be
this gateway attachment and the Internet gateway itself.
Remember, an Internet gateway is just a resource so that you can have access to
inbound and outbound network traffic from the outside into your private Cloud.
Let's make it work. I'll copy this over
to our file and I'll drop it over here.
Probably, this formatting is not ideal.
Let me move this over and Shift,
Tab to move back.
Now it's aligned properly with the VPC here.
So the first thing is the creation of the Internet gateway.
You see, the resource type is Internet gateway.
We just gave it a name of Internet gateway and we're providing tags.
This is the first time, I believe,
where we're using tags for something useful.
It's not just a label anymore.
Tags, which in this case are referencing the parameter that we call EnvironmentName.
Now you see things start to make sense.
We have this EnvironmentName,
which we're going to call UdacityProject,
and we use the reference function from CloudFormation,
the exclamation point, a ref,
will go and substitute the value here from the parameter.
So you're going to have a tag that says name equals UdacityProject ".
So if you have 100 internet gateways,
or 100 VPCs, or 100 of whatever resource.
When you see the name tag that says, UdacityProject,
it's going to remind you, this is part of that specific infrastructure that we created.
Once the resource is created,
we'll create an additional resource,
which is the attachment.
It's really just a functionality to associate the VPC.
In this case, we also do a ref.
This is the first time that we're using the reference function not for a parameter.
We're using the reference function to refer to another resource by name.
In this case, the name is VPC,
which is the first resource that we created.
It's right here. So it will automatically pass the VPC ID to
this attachment so the Internet gateway will know for
sure which VPC it's associated with.